First draft of full Greenbone CE for Kali Linux documentation (#437)
greenbone/docs: src/22.4/kali/troubleshooting.md

Error: target cluster 16/main already exists
```

To complete the upgrade, the `16/main` cluster must first be stopped and deleted.

```bash
sudo pg_ctlcluster 16 main stop
sudo pg_dropcluster 16 main
```

Now upgrade the old cluster to a new one. The `pg_upgradecluster` command migrates databases from the old cluster to the new cluster.

```{code-block}
:caption: The basic syntax of the pg_upgradecluster command.
pg_upgradecluster [options] oldversion oldclustername [newversion]
```

To upgrade your PostgreSQL cluster, you should use the following command:

```bash
sudo pg_upgradecluster 15 main
```

If you do not need the older PostgreSQL cluster, you should delete it.

```bash
sudo pg_dropcluster 15 main
```

And remove the PostgreSQL 15 packages

```bash
sudo apt autoremove
```

Now only the new PostgreSQL cluster exists.

```{code-block}
:caption: Listing the existing PostgreSQL clusters
┌──(dev㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ pg_lsclusters                   
Ver Cluster Port Status Owner    Data directory              Log file
16  main    5433 online postgres /var/lib/postgresql/16/main /var/log/postgresql/postgresql-16-main.log
```
### 2. Configure The PostgreSQL Port

> Typically, the `pg_upgradecluster` will also configure the new version of PostgreSQL to use the standard port `5432`, which is required by Greenbone CE. However, if the port is not automatically changed, you must change it manually by editing the `postgresql.conf` configuration file and restarting the PostgreSQL systemd service. On Kali the `postgresql.conf` configuration file is located in the `/etc/postgresql/<version>/main` directory, but to be sure you can issue a command to locate the configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, the `pg_upgradecluster` will also configure the new version of PostgreSQL to use the standard port `5432`, which is required by Greenbone Community Edition. However, if the port is not automatically changed, you must change it manually by editing the `postgresql.conf` configuration file and restarting the PostgreSQL systemd service. On Kali the `postgresql.conf` configuration file is located in the `/etc/postgresql/<version>/main` directory, but to be sure you can issue a command to locate the configuration file.
```

```

To fix the collation mismatch, login to the `psql` command line and execute the suggested commands to update all databases in the cluster.  This will at least include the `gvmd` and `postgres` databases.

```{code-block}
:caption: Become the postgres user to access the psql shell as a superadmin
sudo su postgres
```

```{code-block}
:caption: Start the PostgreSQL shell
psql
```

```{code-block}
:caption: Update each database COLLATION version
postgres=# ALTER DATABASE postgres REFRESH COLLATION VERSION;
NOTICE:  changing version from 2.36 to 2.37
ALTER DATABASE
postgres=# ALTER DATABASE gvmd REFRESH COLLATION VERSION;
NOTICE:  changing version from 2.36 to 2.37
ALTER DATABASE
postgres-# \q
postgres@kali:/home/dev$ exit
```

### 5. Resolve Any Outstanding Dependencies

In order to complete the database cluster migration, you may also need to update various outdated extensions depending on the particular changes between PostgreSQL versions. For example, when migrating between PostgreSQL 15 and 16, the `pgcrypto` module must be updated. To update any unresolved dependencies...

```bash
sudo apt install pgcrypto

```  

> ### 6. Complete The Greenbone CE Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Complete The Greenbone Community Edition Setup
```

You can now run the `gvm-setup` command to complete the setup.

```
sudo gvm-setup
```

```{note}
During setup it's important to note and record the default password created for the GVM admin user.
```

```{code-block}
:caption: The admin password is included in gvm-setup output
[+] Done
[*] Please note the password for the admin user
[*] User created with password 'ff006a29-8977-4ffa-882c-cd430fdc9bb8'.

[>] You can now run gvm-check-setup to make sure everything is correctly configured
```

## Other Common Setup Errors

```{note}

> Here are some other common setup errors you may encounter when installing Greenbone CE from the native Kali Linux package. In most cases, hints are available in the `gvm-setup` and `gvm-check-setup` command output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some other common setup errors you may encounter when installing Greenbone Community Edition from the native Kali Linux package. In most cases, hints are available in the `gvm-setup` and `gvm-check-setup` command output.
```

```

### ERROR: extention "pg-gvm" is not available

[See the instructions here](#3-install-the-newest-pg-gvm-extension-for-postgresql) to find and install the latest version of `pg-gvm`.

### ERROR: No users found

If you encounter the error **ERROR: No users found.** when running `sudo gvm-check-setup`, you will need to create at least one an admin user. Replace `<your-password>` with your own password.

```bash

> sudo runuser -u _gvm -- gvmd --create-user=admin --password=<your-password>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo runuser -u _gvm -- gvmd --create-user=admin --password='<your-password>'
```

```

### ERROR: The Postgresql DB does not exist

> If the PostgreSQL database was not created during initial setup of Greenbone CE, or not transferred when migrating to a new cluster, you must manually create the database with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the PostgreSQL database was not created during initial setup of Greenbone Community Edition, or not transferred when migrating to a new cluster, you must manually create the database with the following command:
```

```
sudo runuser -u postgres -- /usr/share/gvm/create-postgresql-database
```

### ERROR: Required systemd service did not start

> If the ospd-openvas service or any other required Greenbone `systemd` services did not start during the setup or initialization, you can attempt to manually start the process.  Here is an example for troubleshooting the `ospd-openvas` systemd service, but you can use this process for other services as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the ospd-openvas service or any other required Greenbone `systemd` services did not start during the setup or initialization, you can attempt to manually start the process. Here is an example for troubleshooting the `ospd-openvas` systemd service, but you can use this process for other services as well:
```

```{code-block}
:caption: Try to manually start the service
sudo systemctl start ospd-openvas
```

If the service still fails to start properly, you can check for errors using the following methods:

```{code-block}
:caption: Display the systemd service status including any errors
sudo systemctl status ospd-openvas | less
```

```{code-block}
:caption: View detailed system logs with extended output
journalctl -xe
```

```{code-block}
:caption: View most recent items in the ospd-openvas log file
tail -20 /var/log/gvm/ospd-openvas.log
```

```{note}

> You can find all the Greenbone CE log files in the `/var/log/gvm` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the Greenbone Community Edition log files in the `/var/log/gvm` directory.
```

```

> ### ERROR: The client certificate file of GVM is not valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ERROR: The client certificate file of gsad is not valid
```

Author: This uses the term GVM because the Kali Linux error uses the term GVM.  I hope this error can be found in an online search.   Although gsad may be the correct term, this will perhaps break the ability for users to find this information.

Reviewer: Ok in that case we should keep the original section title. Personally I don't want to use the term GVM anywhere in our docs anymore (besides the glossary). The whole naming of our software and its components is sooooooo confusing due to all the renaming in the past and IMHO Greenbone Community Edition is what people might understand best.

Author: OK, but you just added the term `GVM` above to reference the admin password.

> If the required SSL/TLS certificates failed to generate during the standard setup process, or if the existing certificates are not valid any longer, you must generate the necessary SSL/TLS certificate files. The script `gvm-manage-certs` is used for managing the certificates required by Greenbone CE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the required SSL/TLS certificates failed to generate during the standard setup process, or if the existing certificates are not valid any longer, you must generate the necessary SSL/TLS certificate files. The script `gvm-manage-certs` is used for managing the certificates required by Greenbone Community Edition.
```

```{code-block}
:caption: Generate all required SSL/TLS certificates
sudo runuser -u _gvm -- gvm-manage-certs -a -f
```

### ERROR: Database is wrong version. You have installed a new gvmd version

> When upgrading Greenbone CE, you may need to also update the `gvmd` PostgreSQL database schema. You can update the `gvmd` database to the with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading Greenbone Community Edition, you may need to also update the `gvmd` PostgreSQL database schema. You can update the `gvmd` database to the with the following command:
```

```bash
sudo runuser -u _gvm -- gvmd --migrate
```

### ERROR: No postgresql version uses the port 5432.

> Greenbone CE requires a PostgreSQL connection on port 5432. [See instructions here](#2-configure-the-postgresql-port) to change the PostgreSQL port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Greenbone Community Edition requires a PostgreSQL connection on port 5432. [See instructions here](#2-configure-the-postgresql-port) to change the PostgreSQL port.
```
